as well as banking products and services to Brazos Valley citizens.
Hello and welcome to Veterans of the Valley.
I'm Tom Turbiville.
Last week, Navy Seabee Mike Guidry and I shared some of the highlights of the video that he produced and filmed during his six-month tour with the 28th Naval Mobile Construction Battalion, the Seabees, serving in Al-Assad, Iraq.
There's more to show of these brave and dedicated men and women.
As you saw last week and, well, again this week, there was a time to work and a time to laugh, and the 28th did both with gusto.
Welcome back to Veterans of the Valley, EO2, Mike Guidry of College Station.
Mike, we had a great time last week in some of the video.
We're going to see some different things this week, some different angles that you took.
Talk a little bit, like you did last week, sort of about this whole project.
You say a lot of it was just pretty much off the cuff.
But I have an idea that it was a lot of work for a guy named Mike Guidry, right?
Yeah.
Like I said, it was six-month deployment and
You know, there were so much more ideas that we had once we started doing the skits.
Like, oh, let's do this, let's do that.
But we just ran out of time.
You know, we were busy.
I mean, it looks like it was all fun and games, but you'd think there was only three hours of footage out of thousands of hours worth of work that we actually did over there.
Right, right, right.
When you didn't have your camera in hand, it was all work.
You know, we get to see a lot of the humor of it right now.
Let's go ahead and get right to it, as a matter of fact.
This first segment that we're going to see, this is, we're going to back...
track a little bit from where we ended last week and get to the departure to Al-Assad, sort of the packing and this massive troop plane, I guess, that you all went over on.
It's very, very impressive.
That's a big airplane.
That's a C-17 Globemaster III.
Wow.
That's what that is.
You're going to get a good look at it and you're going to get sort of the look, the face of the men and the women going off to war.
Here we go.
Right now, we're getting ready to mount out.
You can see the Third Country Nationals are help loading the 463L pallets with all the seat bags.
As we get through here, we'll go out to the landing strip to go.
Just have to eat now with cargo nets.
We'll be leaving shortly.
Very impressive.
Like we were just talking that particular flight that they just went on was not a particularly long flight.
And that's good because that was close quarters with a lot of equipment on, right?
Oh yes.
Yeah.
That was the most comfortable fly I've ever been on compared to any commercial flight and fast too.
When you take off, it's like a roller coaster.
That thing just shot off.
It was up in the air.
About a 45-minute flight from Kuwait, Ali Al-Saleen to Al-Asad.
To Al-Asad, Al-Asad.
The next one we're going to see, this is kind of, this is the longest segment that we have of the two weeks of this feature.
We're going to start off with a sort of a skit that really didn't start off to be a skit.
It turned into one with the armory.
But then...
a segment that I call convoy, which really gives us a good look at the equipment, the vehicles, just the massive amount of equipment.
And this is just from one unit, just from the 28th and the Marine attachment with you.
And what's the gentleman's name that's going to be introducing this convoy and talking about?
Introducing this is going to be our Echo Company commander.
It'll be Lieutenant Sagittano.
He's also our S-7, which is our training officer.
He expertly led this entire evolution as far as the convoys were concerned.
Then he had two company
commanders that were beneath him that were chiefs, that there was two different convoy elements that went out there through Al-Assad and Camp Fallujah.
This segment will include both video and slides.
You'll take a ride through the small towns of Iraq and really get a face for this war.
So let's go ahead and get to it right now.
Good afternoon.
My name is Lieutenant Brendan Herring.
I'm the weapons and ordnance officer for Naval Mobile Construction Battalion 28.
I also help in the Unit Movement Control Center with the air movement.
I'm an Air Force officer.
I've been in the Air Force coming up on two years.
I've been with the battalion about five months.
My job here in the Armory is to make sure that the battalion, and especially the combat security elements, are prepared and ready to go with all the weaponry and ordnance they need to carry out their mission, and also whenever we send groups out on projects that they're prepared to handle whatever threats may emerge.
So come on in and we'll go ahead and show you around the armory and introduce you to the folks that work here and show you a little bit about what we do.
This is the inside of the armory.
This is where it all goes down.
As you can see over here, we've got Connex boxes where we store weapons for the convoy security elements.
More storage over here.
Back behind you, we've got the ammunition storage point where we keep all of our explosives.
Over here we've got people using the armory to clean their weapons, which is an essential function when in a desert environment such as Iraq.
So we encourage people to spend as much time as they can in there.
Is that carbon?
Carbon!
There's carbon right there!
I'll do it to get it out!
Get the carbon out!
And my very aggressive staff making sure that people do a good job of cleaning their weapons every time they shoot and at periodic intervals to ensure readiness.
Thank you.
Hi, I'm Lieutenant Satchel Tano, OIC, Echo Company, and today I'm coming to you here from Al-Assad.
We have one of our teams based here in Al-Assad getting ready to take off for the evening, heading out on another mission.
So far, today, we have completed over 200 missions and over 20,000 miles.
You see them come behind me here.
They travel pretty heavy.
They have crew served weapons,
Big, big truck.
We travel some of the toughest roads here in Iraq, protecting the convoys from enemy attack, attacks from IEDs.
They look out, they protect some of the drivers and stuff that we take along with us.
All along, they're out there for the safety.
There's another one there.
don't know where they're going now and as they continue their missions throughout here we want to thank the families who support them back home they also have support these guys would be able to concentrate and do the things that they do well here protecting our convoys vehicles
that also tag along.
They want to pick up some equipment tonight.
That's pretty much what these guys do.
They're on the roads, lots of long hours.
As you can see, I got the sun setting behind me here.
They mainly travel at night, so they spend a lot of time on the roads at night under the cover of darkness, which helps protect them and the convoy.
And coming up behind us here is the convoy commander's platform.
This is CMC Lewship.
He has expertly led this convoy team in all aspects
Now, much like the police forces back home, these guys are in charge with taking care of that convoy.
They will stop any local national vehicles from moving into the convoy.
It will help block off roads, get verbal signs, signals to them.
Get a car, L.D.
Finally, it ends up with one of our recovery vehicles here.
Basically, they are in charge to pick up any vehicle and bring down along the route.
They carry all kind of gear in the back, and that helps them at any time that they can help get the convoy moving.
In closing, I'd just like to add that I'm very proud of these guys.
These guys have done a really lot of hard hours, long hours on the road, a lot of hard work.
So the rest of the Seabees here, we're just looking to push through, finish up this deployment, get back home safely and sound to our families.
Good night.
Mike, I think what you've shown us puts a face on the war that we don't normally get to see through the news clips of the TV networks and the cable networks and all that.
It's just very impressive actually putting us in a tank
or in a vehicle and going through the streets of Iraq.
I mean, that's the way it is right there through your camera lens, right?
There you go.
Now, a lot of that footage wasn't shot on the convoys.
That was someone else.
But indeed, it's not all, you know, here you see the human factor.
You know, it's like you and me, you know, being out there and, you know, they're their people.
You know, it's not like what you see on the media.
Right, right.
Indeed.
Very, very impressive.
It gives people a viewpoint.
that I just don't think that they get to get anywhere else.
Last week we introduced the viewers to a fellow named Kevin Geegan.
A guy who, for morale purposes, was obviously very, very much needed.
A very funny guy, very inventive guy.
Kevin, we'll see.
This is going to be just sort of fun with Kevin, a segment coming up.
Was he always on like this, whether the camera was on or not?
Was he always joking around and doing the voices and the imitations?
Kevin, I've known Kevin since 1995 when I first met him.
Kevin is one of my best friends, absolutely.
Will be for life.
He's another native Texan.
He's a Ustonian, works for Reliant Energy.
And he will study people and just come up with these characters.
You know, it imitates them perfectly.
But when it comes down to work, he's the best man to have around.
I tell you what, this guy can do it all.
You know, no matter what you, whatever you need, Kevin's the guy, the go-to guy.
Here's some more fun with Kevin Geegan coming up, including a segment where he's talking on his cell phone to his dog.
You'll really like that.
Here we go.
My name is Scrappy-Doo, and I'm getting ready to get on the plane, me and my Uncle Scooby.
And we've been having a whole bunch of Guinness, not beer, and we're real fired up.
And I tell you what, we're going to go, and we're going to go in the old castle.
These guys are laughing at me.
My name is Scrappy-Doo.
Puppy power.
Come on.
No, Scrappy, no.
Uncle Scooby, let's go in that old mansion, and let's go get that ghost.
One, two, three, four.
I'll beat him myself.
Will you go in the Old Castle for one Scooby snack?
No way.
Two Scooby snacks?
Maybe.
Three Scooby snacks?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Come on, let's go.
Me and you go in the castle and give me three Scooby snacks.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Okay, Uncle Scooby, let's go.
See you later.
From Ireland, this is Scrappy-Doo.
Puppy power!
I'm looking for my almost goalie.
Who are you?
I tell you what, I'm going to get you.
One, two, three.
I need a scrappy dude.
Let me at him.
One, two, three.
I'm going to get you.
Come on, let me at him.
Let me at him.
I need a scrappy dude.
One, two.
Come on, come on.
I'll get you on loose.
One, two, three.
One, two.
Come on.
Let me at him.
Hello, everybody.
I'm Barry Hollinshatt from Oklahoma, and I come on this deployment, and I learned a whole lot about billing.
The only thing I really miss is I'm a cat lover.
I had a cat.
His name is Sniffles, and he's back home.
Hello, Sniffles.
Wait a minute.
I might be able to get him on the phone.
Dad?
Hey.
This is Barry.
Where's Sniffles?
He's out.
How long has he been gone?
Well, I told you, Dad, to give me a call when he stays out two or three days.
Where's he been?
Out running.
That's all right.
I'll take care of him.
Oh, he's coming through the door, the kitty door.
OK, put him on the phone.
She falls.
I don't want to hear that anymore.
You keep on all that, now where have you been?
I told dad to tell me when you, he says you've been gone for three or four days.
I'll tell you what, you won't be getting any more honey this time.
I'm going out to get honey and milk all the time and all night long.
And this is what you do, Turbo.
You go out and stay all night.
You just wait till I get home.
I'm going to have you neutered.
No, don't keep on... Like me, you won't be getting any more me-all mixed in.
Okay, Sniffles.
I've had it with you.
All right.
Bye.
Well, sorry about that, but he gets in trouble all the time.
Well, I've got to go get me a cigar Switzer Sweet.
Barry Holland said, remember me, and it's been his pleasure serving with you in Iraq.
Excuse me, it was his cat, not his dog, as you could finally see, and this was based on a real-life character, is that right?
A real-life fellow Seabee?
Yeah, this is a real person, and he would call his cat, apparently.
That was Kevin.
That was him, again, getting in the mind of people that he knew and developed this character, and boom, there you go.
A lot of great guys there, but obviously, like you said, he was always on.
So Kevin was doing this whether the camera was on him or not.
Definitely, like you said, a morale booster that they really needed out there.
Indeed.
Y'all are obviously back home now.
This is after the deployment.
As a matter of fact, that last segment that we saw was at a change of command ceremony, which was also part of your two-hour video, which I wish we had had time to show that whole thing.
It was very, very impressive.
But your commander, who we have seen, the commander of Chardon.
Impressive gentleman, obviously.
Yes, I cannot say enough about the man.
He's become a very close friend of mine.
He lives in Katy, Texas.
Just saw him last weekend, actually, and he's asking about my wife, Audrey.
He has so much in your personal life, but he is one of the sole reasons why we all came home.
I mean, everybody washed their backs.
It was their own personal...
whatever you call it, so that they all came home safely, but yet he had so much more to do with it.
Absolutely.
Indeed.
Last segment is a short one, but you can definitely tell that Mike Guidry is home because this is just a little short video
of being home right here in College Station at the George Bush Library in a very special sort of impromptu greeting.
Actually, this was an old footage of UPD back in UPD days.
I'm sorry.
Okay, that's okay.
It is an old footage, but it is still back home.
But I wanted to show this.
And then the end of the video, the light's out.
Here we go.
Nice to see you.
You get it?
Yes, sir.
He's doing a good job.
Guidry himself.
One of the great officers is named Guidry, and he's doing a fine job here.
I'd like you to know that.
We'll see you.
Again, that was taken earlier, the part with President Bush, when, like we talked about in our first show, when you were an employee of UPD, where you were there for quite a while, and the light's out.
Mike, just a tremendous video.
I wish everybody had a chance to see the whole two-hour video because there's a lot on it.
As we mentioned a few weeks ago, you've got a deployment coming up in 2010 where you'll be going back, and this time your order is through Afghanistan, is that right?
Correct.
You're looking forward to that?
Oh, yes.
It was a good experience, and our cause is just.
And even depending on who's in office, we've still got a mission to do out there, and it needs to be done.
Right, right.
And you're going to take your camera with you next time, and we're going to see a part two, is that right?
We'll be taking a high-def camera this time.
Oh, hi.
Did a good job on that.
Thank you.
And like I say, we don't want to give people the idea that this is all he did for six months in Iraq.
No, this was just a very, very small portion of it.
And it certainly was something that kept up the morale of the people of the 28th Seabees.
Mike Guidry, again, thank you very much for your service.
And thank you for sharing the video with us.
It was tremendous.
And good luck to you and your wife, Audrey.
And stay safe on your next deployment.
Thank you, Tom.
Appreciate that.
Mike Guidry.
Thanks to the men and the women of the 28th Seabees for putting a real face on those who served.
I hope you could see what I saw in those faces, a dedication, a pride, and yes, especially on the faces of those on that plane to Iraq and uncertainty of what lay ahead.
Thanks to Mike Guidry for his service and for his camera and his eye for bringing us the essence of the 28th Seabees.
I'm Tom Turbiville for EO2 Mike Guidry.
Join us next time on Veterans of the Valley.